Now we're going to get a little more
creative here from for mono repurpose.
So I'm going to go back to
the workspace level package JSON.
And I'm going to configure script D.
And I'm going to say,
I know by default, you just look for
this folder called scripts.
But I want to have a place for
workspace level scripts and then a folder.
Where packages can discover their scripts.
So we're going to start with
this little config here.
And then I'm going to go
into our course files.
And in folder for step number six,
we've got these packages and
workspace sub folders.
I'm going to drag those right into
the Scripts folder that I just created.
I can leave great in there, it's fine.
All right, so this is what I've got now.
And I got to do my chmod thing again, just
to be sure I can recursively apply this.
And now if you're using Windows right now,
you're probably like screaming at me.
But frankly I'm not sure how
to do this in windows with
the permission situation is there.
I say this is Microsoft employee
which is pretty shameful.
But Try out windows subsystem for
Linux or cygwin,
you'll be able to do all
the stuff I'm doing right here.
Alright, so
the only thing I added here was dash R,
which is recursive meaning And
I need to do this.
Right go into the Scripts folder and
all the way down.
Set the permissions on these files.
So now we can see, the important thing
is when we do ls-l, we can see this x.
So this means anyone can execute
this file is read, write Execute.
Finally we just need to kinda wire
up our package Jayson so it knows.
Like it can, like yan can receive this
command and delegate that work to screpti.
So I'm just gonna create a bunch of
this and we are gonna have field Clean.
I'm just matching the names of the folders
here are the files within the folder,
lint and test.
That's in our workspace level and
packages, they just get a build lint and
test.
So we're about to make
the same change there.
I could have called this Create j s and
deleted this.
And I believe it would also have worked.
But it's maybe it doesn't.
Maybe I need to try it again.
Let's see if that was the problem.
Aha Aha.
That's what I get from going off script.
Interesting looks like at least for
a node,
I have to have an extension list file and
I have to use this.
It's called a shebang
interpreter directives.
Which is this thing up here?
I mean, I can run this I could
literally do Just run it like that.
Least for JavaScript files, it looks like
for shell scripts this.sh is not harmful.
So, now that we've got this,
take my word for it,
we have to do this next step
before we test things out.
And that is to go into
each of our packages and
to tell it about scripty and have it.
Delegates work for most of these things.
To those shell scripts, and
we're going to look at those shell
scripts in a second because
I do not want you to think,
I am staying deceptively
close to the happy path.
Write, easy to set up.
And there is no magic it just
kinda it works by convention.
So the things I've done is
I am a package of giving it
its own responsibility to
define what clean means.
But everything else I'm saying Like
just build lint and test the usual way.
And then finally, normally this would look
within each package, it would look for
its own Scripts folder,
but I don't want that.
I want it to go reach up to the top and
to use the centralized folder that
applies for all of our packages.
If we had 50 packages.
And we had built lint and
test as our script we'd still have only
three shell scripts to maintain,
do not have to worry about,
like things falling out,
same package or get a typo one place.
Gonna make a similar modification
to the utils package JSON.
So we're gonna say test scripty,
lint scripty and build scripty.
And then finally this path,
go look for your scripts here.
All right, so it's just this little
bit and then this bit up here.
And I think we're good to go.
I see that I have one little bug fix
here that I realized at this point
I'm gonna let us slam into it because
it'll prove that things are working.
So if I have delivered on my promise,
I should be able to do this,
lerna run What should be able to run this?
And it should not blow up in my face.
Doesn't look like it's blown up.
So ran the lint task into packages and
I see I've got a little
like Nice little awine so
I can see this twice gives me confidence
that I'm running it in two packages.
So I believe that it is delegating
its work to this shell script.
Why?
Because if we go and look in my scripts,
packages, lint There it is.
There's a little detective looking for
the lint problems.
And note,
this is not anything complicated.
There's no special magic here about
finding the right directory script is
handling that for me.
So, it will regardless of where
the script is located It will invoke
this from within the working directory
of where the command was run.
So I don't need to wire up
any special paths here.
It just works.
And for that matter if you have
scripts that you need to share between
your projects,.
Going beyond mono repos here,
you could put these into an NPM package.
And you could reach into
your node modules folder.
And you could find these and
you could run them.
So you could have a set of build scripts
that's distributed as a package that
a bunch of things in your company consume.
Totally fair game.
Now of course, that means your scripts
won't work, until you run, yarn install.
But that is not deal breaker,
as far as I'm concerned.
So, let's try this.
Now that we're at the base of our project,
what we have accomplished.
So let me show you that
nothing's up my sleeve here.
Building is the same linting is the same.
Testing is the same.
That's all that we're doing for
packages, for workspace building.
Well, we've already been doing this.
By the way, I'm choosing to do
this instead of learner run build,
cuz learn to run build simply goes
to each package individually and
runs build This is a bit smarter and
it takes advantage of the,
the references that we set up on step two,
like our composite project step,
and this will update only what's
necessary across our whole project.
So I'm choosing to do this but
for clean And just cleaning, and
I can clean with maximum concurrency.
Who cares about the order of the packages,
we're just deleting.
Lint, I want to see the output so
I make sure that I stream we've
already been running this.
And same with test.
I'll test things in sequence.
Actually, let's make it explicit
that the sequences Concurrency one.
And here's why reading interleaved test
output in your console is just a big pain.
So I honestly will have
them run a bit slower.
And I can read them, but
maybe if I was running them locally.
And I was just incrementally
changing things.
I might run them in parallel then because
I only expect like the odd tester to
to fail.
Let's see if we have arrived at a point
where this now feels more like a non
mono repo JavaScript project.
Yarn, build Building workspace and
we're done.
Yarn clean Cleaning both of our packages,
yarn build again.
Now it's pausing for a moment
because it's doing real work right,
it's updating only what's necessary.
I just cleaned up to update everything.
And then yarn lint.
Should do linting in sequence types and
then utils and then finally yarn test.
There's test number one and
here comes test number two.
So there we go.
Now it's not feeling it's it's feeling
like the maintenance overhead is more like
a monolith app, cheap to maintain.
But we have the benefit of
all those little libraries.